Snowflake Integration update (#1680)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-snowflake.md

            task_id="delete_forestfire_cost_table",
            sql="delete_table.sql",
            params={"table_name": SNOWFLAKE_FORESTFIRE_COST_TABLE}
        )

        begin = EmptyOperator(task_id="begin")
        create_done = EmptyOperator(task_id="create_done")
        load_done = EmptyOperator(task_id="load_done")
        end = EmptyOperator(task_id="end")

        chain(
            begin,
            [create_forestfire_table, create_cost_table, create_forestfire_cost_table],
            create_done,
            [load_forestfire_data, load_cost_data],
            load_done,
            [quality_check_group_forestfire, quality_check_group_cost],
            load_forestfire_cost_data,
            quality_check_group_forestfire_costs,
            transform_forestfire_cost_table,
            [delete_forestfire_table, delete_cost_table, delete_forestfire_cost_table],
            end
        )
    ```

    This complex DAG has a write, audit publish pattern showcasing loading data into Snowflake and running [data quality](data-quality.md) checks on the data that has been written. 

    ![Complex Snowflake DAG](/img/guides/snowflake_complex_dag.png)

>     The DAG accomplishes the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The DAG completes the following steps:
```

>     - Creating three tables simultaneously using the [SnowflakeOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake/modules/snowflakeoperator). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Creates three tables simultaneously using the [SnowflakeOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake/modules/snowflakeoperator). 
```

>     - Loading data into two of the tables that were created using the [SnowflakeOperatorAsync](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/astronomer-providers/modules/snowflakeoperatorasync) a deferrable version of the SnowflakeOperator. In order to be able to use deferrable operators you need to have a triggerer component running in your Airflow environment, which is configured automatically if you are using the Astro CLI. Learn more about deferrable operators in our [Deferrable operators guide](deferrable-operators.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Loads data into two of the tables that were created using the [SnowflakeOperatorAsync](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/astronomer-providers/modules/snowflakeoperatorasync) a deferrable version of the SnowflakeOperator. In order to be able to use deferrable operators you need to have a triggerer component running in your Airflow environment, which is configured automatically if you are using the Astro CLI. Learn more about deferrable operators in our [Deferrable operators guide](deferrable-operators.md).
```
Can move the deferrable notes into the separate step below.

>     - Running data quality checks on the data to ensure that no erroneous data is moved to production. These checks are structured with [task groups](task-groups.md) that include column checks using the [SQLColumnCheckOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/common-sql/modules/sqlcolumncheckoperator) and table checks using the [SQLTableCheckOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/common-sql/modules/sqltablecheckoperator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Runs data quality checks on the data to ensure that no erroneous data is moved to production. These checks are structured with [task groups](task-groups.md) that include column checks using the [SQLColumnCheckOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/common-sql/modules/sqlcolumncheckoperator) and table checks using the [SQLTableCheckOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/common-sql/modules/sqltablecheckoperator).
```

>     - Copying data into the production table using the SnowflakeOperatorAsync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Copies data into the production table using the SnowflakeOperatorAsync.
```

>     - Deleting the tables to clean up the example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Deletes the tables to clean up the example.
```

sidebar_label: Snowflake
---

[Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/) is one of the most commonly used data warehouses. Orchestrating Snowflake queries as part of a data pipeline is one of the most common Airflow use cases. Using Airflow with Snowflake is straightforward, and there are multiple open source packages, tools, and integrations that can help you realize the full potential of your existing Snowflake instance.

This tutorial covers an example of orchestrating complex Snowflake operations with Airflow, including:

- Creating tables.
- Loading data into Snowflake.
- Running transformations on data in Snowflake using Airflow operators. 
- Running data quality checks on data in Snowflake. 

> Additionally, [How it works](#how-it-works) offers further information on:

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, [More on the Airflow Snowflake integration](#more-on-the-airflow-snowflake-integration) offers further information on:
```

This tutorial takes approximately 30 minutes to complete.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this tutorial, make sure you have an understanding of:

- Snowflake basics. See [Introduction to Snowflake](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide-intro.html).
- Airflow operators. See [Airflow operators](what-is-an-operator.md).
- SQL basics. See the [W3 SQL tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/).

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started).
- A Snowflake account. A [30-day free trial](https://signup.snowflake.com/) is available. You need to have at least one schema in one database available for which you have permissions to create and write to tables.

## Step 1: Configure your Astro project

Use the Astro CLI to create and run an Airflow project on your local machine.

1. Create a new Astro project:

    ```sh
    $ mkdir astro-snowflake-tutorial && cd astro-snowflake-tutorial
    $ astro dev init
    ```

2. Run the following command to start your Airflow project:

    ```sh
    $ astro dev start
    ```

## Step 2: Configure a Snowflake connection

1. In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** -> **Connections** and click **+**. 

> 2. Create a new connection named `snowflake_default` and choose the `snowflake` connection type. Enter the following information:

Author: ```suggestion
2. Create a new connection named `snowflake_default` and choose the `Snowflake` connection type. Enter the following information:
```

    - [Schema](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-schema.html): Your Snowflake schema. 
    - Login: Your Snowflake login username.
    - Password: Your Snowflake password.

>     - Account: Your snowflake account in the format `xz12345`.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Account: Your Snowflake account in the format `xz12345`.
```

>     - Account: Your Snowflake account in the format `xz12345`.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Account: Your Snowflake account in the format `xy12345`.
```

    ```python
    from airflow import DAG
    from airflow.models.baseoperator import chain
    from airflow.operators.empty import EmptyOperator
    from airflow.providers.common.sql.operators.sql import (
        SQLColumnCheckOperator, SQLTableCheckOperator
    )
    from airflow.providers.snowflake.operators.snowflake import SnowflakeOperator
    from pendulum import datetime
    from airflow.utils.task_group import TaskGroup
    import include.sql.tutorial_sql_statements as sql_stmts 

    SNOWFLAKE_FORESTFIRE_TABLE = "forestfires"
    SNOWFLAKE_COST_TABLE = "costs"
    SNOWFLAKE_FORESTFIRE_COST_TABLE = "forestfire_costs"

    SNOWFLAKE_CONN_ID = "snowflake_default"

    ROW_COUNT_CHECK = "COUNT(*) = 9"

    with DAG(
        "complex_snowflake_example",
        description="""
            Example DAG showcasing loading, transforming, 
            and data quality checking with multiple datasets in Snowflake.
        """,
        doc_md=__doc__,
        start_date=datetime(2022, 12, 1),
        schedule_interval=None,
        # defining the directory where SQL templates are stored
        template_searchpath="/usr/local/airflow/include/sql/",
        catchup=False

>     ) as dag:
>         """

Author: ```suggestion
    ) as dag:
    
        """
```

>     with DAG(
>         "complex_snowflake_example",
>         description="""
>             Example DAG showcasing loading, transforming, 
>             and data quality checking with multiple datasets in Snowflake.
>         """,
>         doc_md=__doc__,
>         start_date=datetime(2022, 12, 1),
>         schedule_interval=None,
>         # defining the directory where SQL templates are stored
>         template_searchpath="/usr/local/airflow/include/sql/",
>         catchup=False
>     ) as dag:
>         """

Author: ```suggestion
    with DAG(
        "complex_snowflake_example",
        description="""
            Example DAG showcasing loading, transforming, 
            and data quality checking with multiple datasets in Snowflake.
        """,
        doc_md=__doc__,
        start_date=datetime(2022, 12, 1),
        schedule=None,
        # defining the directory where SQL templates are stored
        template_searchpath="/usr/local/airflow/include/sql/",
        catchup=False
    ) as dag:
    
        """
```

    This complex DAG implements a write, audit, publish pattern showcasing loading data into Snowflake and running [data quality](data-quality.md) checks on the data that has been written. 

    ![Complex Snowflake DAG](/img/guides/snowflake_complex_dag.png)

    The DAG completes the following steps:

    - Creates three tables simultaneously using the [SnowflakeOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake/modules/snowflakeoperator). 
    - Loads data into two of the tables that were created.
    - Runs data quality checks on the data to ensure that no erroneous data is moved to production. These checks are structured with [task groups](task-groups.md) that include column checks using the [SQLColumnCheckOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/common-sql/modules/sqlcolumncheckoperator) and table checks using the [SQLTableCheckOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/common-sql/modules/sqltablecheckoperator). The task group structure logically groups tasks which simplifies setting dependencies and collapses a set of tasks visually in the Airflow UI. 
    - Copies data into the production table.
    - Deletes the tables to clean up the example.

>     The `chain()` method at the end of the DAG sets the dependencies. This method is commonly used over bitshift operators (`>>`) to make the dependency related code of DAGs with a lot of tasks easier to read. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `chain()` method at the end of the DAG sets the dependencies. This method is commonly used over bitshift operators (`>>`) to make it easier to read dependencies between many tasks.
```

## Step 5: Run the DAG and review data quality results

1. In the Airflow UI, click the play button to manually run your DAG.

2. Navigate to the `Grid` view of the `complex_snowflake_example` DAG and click on the `quality_check_group_forestfire_costs` task group to expand it. You should see two tasks which ran data quality checks on the `forestfire_costs` table. Click on the `forestfire_costs_column_checks` task to view the successful checks in the task's logs.

    ![Forestfire quality checks logs](/img/guides/snowflake_forestfire_quality_checks_logs.png)

## Step 6: Use deferrable operators

> The `complex_snowflake_example` DAG runs several queries against the same Snowflake database in parallel. While some queries, like the ones creating tables, run quickly, larger transformation or loading queries might take longer to complete. These queries are a great use case for the deferrable version of the SnowflakeOperator, the [SnowflakeOperatorAsync](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/astronomer-providers/modules/snowflakeoperatorasync). Deferrable operators use the triggerer component in your Airflow environment, which is configured automatically with the Astro CLI, to release their worker slot while they wait to for the task to be completed. This allows you to use your Airflow resources much more efficiently in production. Learn more about deferrable operators in our [Deferrable operators guide](deferrable-operators.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `complex_snowflake_example` DAG runs several queries against the same Snowflake database in parallel. While some queries, like the ones creating tables, run quickly, larger transformation or loading queries might take longer to complete. These queries are a great use case for the deferrable version of the SnowflakeOperator, the [SnowflakeOperatorAsync](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/astronomer-providers/modules/snowflakeoperatorasync). Deferrable operators use the triggerer component in your Airflow environment, which is configured automatically with the Astro CLI, to release their worker slot while they wait for the task to be completed. This allows you to use your Airflow resources much more efficiently in production. Learn more about deferrable operators in our [Deferrable operators guide](deferrable-operators.md).
```

## Step 6: Use deferrable operators

The `complex_snowflake_example` DAG runs several queries against the same Snowflake database in parallel. While some queries, like the ones creating tables, run quickly, larger transformation or loading queries might take longer to complete. These queries are a great use case for the deferrable version of the SnowflakeOperator, the [SnowflakeOperatorAsync](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/astronomer-providers/modules/snowflakeoperatorasync). Deferrable operators use the triggerer component in your Airflow environment, which is configured automatically with the Astro CLI, to release their worker slot while they wait for the task to be completed. This allows you to use your Airflow resources much more efficiently in production. Learn more about deferrable operators in our [Deferrable operators guide](deferrable-operators.md).

Using deferrable operators from the [Astronomer providers package](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/astronomer-providers) is easy, you simply have to switch out the operator class. All parameters stay the same.

1. Add the following statement to your DAG to import the SnowflakeOperatorAsync:

    ```python

>     from astronomer.providers.snowflake.operators.snowflake import (
>             SnowflakeOperatorAsync
>         )

Author: ```suggestion
    from astronomer.providers.snowflake.operators.snowflake import (
        SnowflakeOperatorAsync
    )
```

    ```

2. Switch out the operators used in the `load_forestfire_data` and `load_cost_data` tasks by replacing `SnowflakeOperator` with `SnowflakeOperatorAsync`:

    ```python
    load_forestfire_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync(  # changed operator name
        task_id="load_forestfire_data",
        sql=sql_stmts.load_forestfire_data,
        params={"table_name": SNOWFLAKE_FORESTFIRE_TABLE}
    )

>     load_cost_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync( # changed operator name

Author: ```suggestion
    load_cost_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync(  # changed operator name
```

>     load_forestfire_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync( # changed operator name
>             task_id="load_forestfire_data",
>             sql=sql_stmts.load_forestfire_data,
>             params={"table_name": SNOWFLAKE_FORESTFIRE_TABLE}
>         )

Author: ```suggestion
    load_forestfire_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync(  # changed operator name
        task_id="load_forestfire_data",
        sql=sql_stmts.load_forestfire_data,
        params={"table_name": SNOWFLAKE_FORESTFIRE_TABLE}
    )
```

>     load_cost_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync( # changed operator name
>             task_id="load_cost_data",
>             sql=sql_stmts.load_cost_data,
>             params={"table_name": SNOWFLAKE_COST_TABLE}
>         )

Author: ```suggestion
    load_cost_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync( # changed operator name
        task_id="load_cost_data",
        sql=sql_stmts.load_cost_data,
        params={"table_name": SNOWFLAKE_COST_TABLE}
    )
```

    ```

3. Run your DAG and observe how the two load tasks go into a deferred state (purple border) before being completed.

     ![Load tasks deferred state](/img/guides/snowflake_example_deferred_state.png)

## More on the Airflow Snowflake integration

This section provides additional information on orchestrating actions in Snowflake with Airflow.

### Snowflake Operators and Hooks

Several open source packages contain operators used to orchestrate Snowflake in Airflow. If you are using the Astro CLI these packages will all be pre-installed in your project.

The [Snowflake provider package](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake) contains:

- [SnowflakeOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake/modules/snowflakeoperator): Executes any SQL query in Snowflake.

> - [S3ToSnowflakeOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake/modules/s3tosnowflakeoperator): Executes an COPY command to load files from s3 to Snowflake.

Author: ```suggestion
- [S3ToSnowflakeOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake/modules/s3tosnowflakeoperator): Executes a COPY command to load files from s3 to Snowflake.
```

sidebar_label: Snowflake
---

[Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/) is one of the most commonly used data warehouses. Orchestrating Snowflake queries as part of a data pipeline is one of the most common Airflow use cases. Using Airflow with Snowflake is straightforward, and there are multiple open source packages, tools, and integrations that can help you realize the full potential of your existing Snowflake instance.

This tutorial covers an example of orchestrating a complex pattern in Snowflake with Airflow, including:

- Creating tables.
- Loading data into Snowflake.
- Running any transformation on data in Snowflake using Airflow operators. 
- Running data quality checks on data in Snowflake. 

> Additionally, the [How it works](#how-it-works) sections offers further information on:

Reviewer 2: Good call! Missed that, updated the suggestion

    ![Forestfire quality checks logs](/img/guides/snowflake_forestfire_quality_checks_logs.png)

## Step 6: Use deferrable operators

The `complex_snowflake_example` DAG runs several queries against the same Snowflake database in parallel. While some queries like the ones creating tables run quickly, larger transformation or loading queries might take some time to run. This is a great use case for the deferrable version of the SnowflakeOperator, the [SnowflakeOperatorAsync](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/astronomer-providers/modules/snowflakeoperatorasync). Deferrable operators use the triggerer component in your Airflow environment, which is configured automatically if you are using the Astro CLI, in order to release their worker slot while they wait to be able to execute a task. This allows you to use your Airflow resources much more efficiently in production. Learn more about deferrable operators in our [Deferrable operators guide](deferrable-operators.md).

> Using deferrable operators from the Astronomer providers package is easy, you simply have to switch out the operator class. All parameters stay the same.

Reviewer: Link to the astro provider repo here?

> 1. Add the following import statement to your DAG importing the SnowflakeOperatorAsync:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following statement to your DAG to import the SnowflakeOperatorAsync:
```

    ```python
    from astronomer.providers.snowflake.operators.snowflake import (
            SnowflakeOperatorAsync
        )
    ```

> 2. Switch out the operator used in the `load_forestfire_data` and `load_cost_data` task by replacing `SnowflakeOperator` with `SnowflakeOperatorAsync`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Switch out the operators used in the `load_forestfire_data` and `load_cost_data` tasks by replacing `SnowflakeOperator` with `SnowflakeOperatorAsync`:
```

    ```python
    load_forestfire_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync( # changed operator name
            task_id="load_forestfire_data",
            sql=sql_stmts.load_forestfire_data,
            params={"table_name": SNOWFLAKE_FORESTFIRE_TABLE}
        )

    load_cost_data = SnowflakeOperatorAsync( # changed operator name
            task_id="load_cost_data",
            sql=sql_stmts.load_cost_data,
            params={"table_name": SNOWFLAKE_COST_TABLE}
        )
    ```

> 3. Run your DAG and observe how the two load tasks go into a deferred state (purple border) before being executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run your DAG and observe how the two load tasks go into a deferred state (purple border) before being completed.
```

     ![Load tasks deferred state](/img/guides/snowflake_example_deferred_state.png)

## How it works

> This section provides additional information on orchestrating actions in Snowflake with Airflow.

Reviewer 2: I feel like "How it works" is a bit of a stretch here based on the content, as the above DAG is not referenced. I'm happy to not include a "How it works" section if the DAG is straightforward enough

Reviewer: We still want to include the additional information here - it was part of the original guide intentionally to highlight the benefits of using Snowflake with Airflow, but I don't think it really makes sense to pull it out as a separate concept guide given how specific it is. We don't need to call it "How it works" though - I'd be fine with "Additional information" or maybe something like "More on the Airflow Snowflake integration"...
